# Design and Development of a Stereo Vision Systemfor Accurate Pose Estimation in Hybrid Additive Manufacturing

Aim : The objective of this thesis is to develop a stereo camera set-up and further explore pose estimation using triangulation algorithms with input images of a real component on the bed plate of an EOS M 290 machine. The triangulated point is further transformed into the machine coordinate system. The thesis delves deeper into comparing multiple triangulation methods to assess the estimation accuracy. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed pose estimation method, a test object with multiple features is designed and manufactured whose precise dimensions are known. The stereo camera setup captures images of the test object, and triangulation is performed to estimate the length, width, and height dimensions of the features. These estimated dimensions are then compared with the actual dimensions to determine the accuracy of the triangulation algorithms. 

Methodology : The investigation begins by selecting the camera and lens based on factors like desired accuracy, the field of view, and space constraints, considering that the cameras are fixed to a frame that is installed into the EOS M 290 machine. Accurate camera and stereo calibration are performed to know the transformation between the cameras. Stereo rectification is then conducted to align the images perfectly on a common horizontal plane. Using the points of interest in the left camera, its corresponding point in the right camera is obtained using stereo correspondence on the rectified images, and finally, triangulation is performed using both points to obtain the pose of the point in the camera frame. Ultimately, the estimated point in camera coordinates is transformed into the World coordinate frame or machine coordinate frame. To define the World coordinate frame, asimple approach is proposed involving markers on the bed plate and obtaining the frame by solving the Perspective-n-Point (PNP) algorithm. Based on this work, we mainly aim to answer the following research questions:

1. How can a fast calibration and recalibration of the stereo system be achieved in a low accessible machine environment?
2. What are the key parameters that influence depth estimation at a low accessible machine?
3. Which triangulation algorithm is best suited for the pose estimation at the LPBF machine?
4. What is a suitable method to calibrate a sensor coordinate system with a coordinate system of an industrial and low-accessible machine?

